# Kivy and Buildozer Template

This is my hello world kivy app. The apk is found in the `bin` directory.

This repo is mainly built as guide on how to successfully use Kivy to write a
GUI app and convert that app to an android apk using buildozer.

The setup instructions on how to install buildozer that (finally) worked for me
for both arch and ubuntu can be found in the `docs/` directory.

## Editing `buildozer.spec`

The `buildozer.spec` is the heart of the buildozer library. So learning how to
use it is essential. The `buildozer.spec` file is generated by going to your
project directory and calling the command `buildozer init`.

But do not use the vanilla `buildozer.spec` file as it is. Here are the major
fields you need to change for a successful build:

- **`requirements`**:
  - initially this field will only use: `python3,kivy`
  - but for a successful build you need to add two other packages as well,
    `hostpython3` and `pillow`
  - you also must specify the python3 and hostpython3 versions
  - if for example you are using python 3.8.18, then the requirements field
    will look something like this:
    - `requirements = python3==3.8.18,hostpyhton3==3.8.18,kivy,pillow`
  - the `hostpyhton3` version must match `python3` version
- **`osx.python_version`**
  - in here you must also correctly specify the pyhton3 version you are using
  - continuing from our previous example, it will look something like this
    - `osx.python_version = 3.8.18`
- **`osx.kivy_version`**
  - in here you must specify the kivy version you are using
  - you can check what kivy version you are using `pip list | grep Kivy`
  - if for example my kivy version is 2.3.0, then:
    - `osx.kivy_version = 2.3.0`
  - additionally make sure to require this same version from inside your `main.py`

After editing these fields then you can build your apk using the command
`buildozer -v android debug`. Then if successful the apk will be found in the
`bin/` directory.

## Disclaimer

This setup is the one that worked for me (after many tries).
